README.md, before:

Virtual modem for ESP8266
=========================

Copyright (C) 2015 Jussi Salin <salinjus@gmail.com> under GPLv3 license.

Overview
--------

ESP8266 is a tiny MCU module with WIFI. It already contains a virtual modem firmware by factory but I wanted to make one myself to support a wider range of baud rates. For example Commodore 64 requires 2400 or lower. Now it is also possible to add additional features in the future because this is open source. For example, translation tables for different character sets or file transfer protocol conversions on the fly with help of a buffer in MCU memory.

AT commands available
---------------------

To change baud rate: AT<baud>
To connect to WIFI: ATWIFI<ssid>,<key>
To connect by TCP: ATDT<host>:<port>

Note that the key and port are optional parameters. Port defaults to 23. All parameters are case sensitive, the command itself not. You must always connect to an access point before dialing, otherwise you get an error. When you connect to WIFI you get either OK or ERROR after a while, depending on if it succeeded. If you get ERROR the connection might still occur by itself some time later, in case you had a slow AP or slow DHCP server in the network. When dialing, you get either CONNECT when successfully connected or ERROR if the connection couldn't be made. Reasons can be that the remote service is down or the host name is mistyped.

Baud rate is 2400 by default and you must always have that on the terminal when powering on. After giving a command for a higher rate nothing is replied, just switch to the new baud rate in your terminal as well. Then you can give next command in the new baud rate. Note that the first command after switching baud rate might fail because the serial port hardware is not fully synchronized yet, so it might be good idea to simply give "AT" command and wait for "ERROR" or "OK" before giving an actual command.

Example communication
---------------------

	OK
	ATWIFIMyAccessPoint,MyPassword
	Connecting to MyAccessPoint/MyPassword
	OK
	ATDTbat.org
	Connecting to bat.org:23
	CONNECT


	    __|\/|__             __|\/|__           __|\/|__       __|\/|__  Logo
	     \<..>/               \<..>/             \<..>/         \<..>/    by:
	             |\_/|                                      |\_/|          Gar
	       ______|0 0|______   /////// //\\ \\\\\\\   ______|0 0|______
	        \| | |   |  | |/  //   // //  \\    \\     \| | |   |  | |/
	          \|..\./...|/   /////// ////\\\\    \\      \|..\./...|/

Commit message:

Added support for telnet codes and for backspace in AT command mode

README.md, after:

Virtual modem for ESP8266
=========================

Copyright (C) 2015 Jussi Salin <salinjus@gmail.com> under GPLv3 license.

Overview
--------

ESP8266 is a tiny MCU module with WIFI. It already contains a virtual modem firmware by factory but I wanted to make one myself to support a wider range of baud rates. For example Commodore 64 requires 2400 or lower. Now it is also possible to add additional features in the future because this is open source. For example, translation tables for different character sets or file transfer protocol conversions on the fly with help of a buffer in MCU memory.

AT command examples
-------------------

* Change baud rate: AT115200
* Connect to WIFI: ATWIFIMyAccessPoint,MyPassword1234
* Connect by TCP: ATDTsome.bbs.com:23
* Disable telnet command parsing: ATT0

Note that the key and port are optional parameters. Port defaults to 23. All parameters are case sensitive, the command itself not. You must always connect to an access point before dialing, otherwise you get an error. When you connect to WIFI you get either OK or ERROR after a while, depending on if it succeeded. If you get ERROR the connection might still occur by itself some time later, in case you had a slow AP or slow DHCP server in the network. When dialing, you get either CONNECT when successfully connected or ERROR if the connection couldn't be made. Reasons can be that the remote service is down or the host name is mistyped.

Baud rate is 2400 by default and you must always have that on the terminal when powering on. After giving a command for a higher rate nothing is replied, just switch to the new baud rate in your terminal as well. Then you can give next command in the new baud rate. Note that the first command after switching baud rate might fail because the serial port hardware is not fully synchronized yet, so it might be good idea to simply give "AT" command and wait for "ERROR" or "OK" before giving an actual command.

Example communication
---------------------

	OK
	ATWIFIMyAccessPoint,MyPassword
	Connecting to MyAccessPoint/MyPassword
	OK
	ATDTbat.org
	Connecting to bat.org:23
	CONNECT


	    __|\/|__             __|\/|__           __|\/|__       __|\/|__  Logo
	     \<..>/               \<..>/             \<..>/         \<..>/    by:
	             |\_/|                                      |\_/|          Gar
	       ______|0 0|______   /////// //\\ \\\\\\\   ______|0 0|______
	        \| | |   |  | |/  //   // //  \\    \\     \| | |   |  | |/
	          \|..\./...|/   /////// ////\\\\    \\      \|..\./...|/

A more detailed example can be seen on my YouTube video at: https://youtu.be/oiP5Clx3D_s

Hints
-----

The module can also be used for other than telnet connections, for example you can connect to HTTP port, send a HTTP request and receive a response.

I made a 3D printable case for the module: http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1545605

Future plans
------------

* Make the module to listen for connections when not connected
* If someone connects, keep printing RING and expect ATA
* Integrated HTTP GET support, for example: ATGEThttp://url/?param=123
